<h1 style="text-align: center;"><span style="font-size: 18pt; font-family: verdana, geneva, sans-serif;">FPGA 8 Bit Computer Based on Ben Eater's Discrete Component Design and Implementation</span></h1>
<h3><span style="font-size: 14pt; font-family: verdana, geneva, sans-serif;">Background</span></h3>
<p style="font-weight: 400;"><span style="font-size: 12pt; font-family: verdana, geneva, sans-serif;">Ben's approach to building the 8-bit computer and his logical, linear, and practical style explain concepts. Like many people who found Ben Eater's 8-bit computer <a href="https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLowKtXNTBypGqImE405J2565dvjafglHU">project </a>on YouTube, the series was highly informative and engaging. And it inspired me to take on this project. I encourage you to review his <a href="https://eater.net/8bit/">website </a>where you can purchase kits to build the computer.</span></p>
<p style="font-weight: 400;"><span style="font-size: 12pt; font-family: verdana, geneva, sans-serif;">Although I did not build his design using discrete integrated circuit components, I did think there would be value in creating a working implementation with an FPGA, field-programmable gate array. An exciting challenge and complementary project to the original design. There are several notable examples of using an FPGA to realize full computers or individual components such as the CPU, video card, and I/O devices. This project designs and implements the same elements in Ben's initial design but uses an FPGA development card instead of breadboards and ICs.</span></p>
<p style="font-weight: 400;"><span style="font-family: verdana, geneva, sans-serif;"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;The following description includes the original Verilog source code and top-level constraint files for the Terasic FPGA development board, utilizing a MAX10 FPGA IC from Alterra. The source files and the project archives from Altera's Quartus Prime software IDE are included.</span>&nbsp;</span></p>
<h3><span style="font-size: 14pt; font-family: verdana, geneva, sans-serif;">Approach</span></h3>
<p></p>
